This is Jacob's Research Journal. I'm Jacob Brooke. Today's deep
dive: When Will Claude Mythos Ship — an evidence-based prediction.
On March twenty-sixth, a C-M-S misconfiguration exposed approximately three thousand
unpublished Anthropic blog posts in a public data cache. Inside
those drafts: detailed documentation for Claude Mythos, an internal codename
Capybara — a fourth tier of Claude sitting above Opus
with dramatically higher scores on coding, reasoning, and especially cybersecurity
benchmarks. Anthropic confirmed it was real. Fortune got them on
record calling Mythos "the most capable we've built to date"
and "a step change in capabilities." Not a rumor. Not
extrapolation. A company calling itself out on a leaked next-generation
model. The question everyone's asking now: when does it actually
ship? I spent the last week pulling every available signal
— release history, marketing strategy, infrastructure timelines, competitive pressure, and
some interesting Reddit signals — to build a falsifiable prediction.
Here's what the data says. Let's separate fact from social
media extrapolation. Confirmed from Fortune's reporting, sourced to the actual
leaked drafts: There's a new fourth tier above Opus called
Capybara. It's larger and more intelligent than the Opus models,
and more expensive. The documentation shows dramatically higher scores on
software coding, academic reasoning, and cybersecurity benchmarks. According to the
leaked materials, Mythos is currently far ahead of any other
A-I model in cyber capabilities — it can identify and
exploit vulnerabilities faster than human defenders. The documents note it's
very expensive for Anthropic to serve. And the company is
starting with a small group of early-access customers focused on
cybersecurity defense applications. Now, what's not confirmed — but went
viral on social media and got recycled as apparent fact.
The claim about approximately ten trillion parameters doesn't appear in
Fortune's original reporting. That number went viral through an X
post by a user called Star Knight One-Two and got
recycled through secondary coverage. Same thing with the claim about
ten billion dollars to train. That's likely a misattribution of
Dario Amodei's public statements about a ten billion dollar compute
infrastructure investment for twenty twenty-six clusters, not a single model's
training cost. As of March twenty-eighth, Mythos is available only
to select early-access customers for cybersecurity defense use cases. It's
not on Claude dot A-I. It's not on the A-P-I.
Now let's look at Anthropic's release cadence pattern. They show
a reliable rhythm that helps narrow the prediction window. Looking
at the timeline: Claude three launched with Opus, Sonnet, and
Haiku on March fourth, twenty twenty-four. Claude three point five
Sonnet came June twentieth, twenty twenty-four — three point five
months later. Then Claude three point five Sonnet V-two plus
Haiku on October twenty-second, twenty twenty-four — four months after
that. Claude three point seven Sonnet launched February twenty-fourth, twenty
twenty-five — four months after the previous release. Claude four,
with Opus and Sonnet, launched May twenty-second, twenty twenty-five —
three months later. Claude Sonnet four point five came September
twenty-ninth, twenty twenty-five — four point three months after Claude
four. Claude Opus four point five launched November twenty-fourth, twenty
twenty-five — six months after Sonnet four point five. Then
Claude Opus four point six on February fifth, twenty twenty-six
— just two point five months later. And Claude Sonnet
four point six on February seventeenth, twenty twenty-six — four
point six months after Sonnet four point five. Here's what
this tells us: Sonnet maintains a consistent four-month cadence. Opus
has been accelerating. The gap between Opus four point five
and four point six was only two point five months.
In late twenty twenty-five and early twenty twenty-six, Anthropic released
fourteen or more products in a single month. The pace
has visibly accelerated. More importantly: Opus four point six was
coordinated with the Super Bowl. It released on February fifth,
twenty twenty-six — three days before Super Bowl L-X. Anthropic
ran their first-ever Super Bowl ads — a sixty-second pregame
spot created by the agency Mother with the tagline "Ads
are coming to A-I. But not to Claude." The campaign
was directly targeting OpenAI's decision to introduce ads to ChatGPT.
The result: six point five percent jump in website visits,
eleven percent increase in daily active users. This confirms something
crucial: Anthropic now thinks about model releases in terms of
marketing moments, not just technical readiness. The old "drop a
blog post" playbook is gone. Now let's talk about Code
with Claude twenty twenty-six — the key signal. On March
twenty-eighth — the same day the Mythos leak broke global
headlines — Anthropic announced Code with Claude twenty twenty-six. The
event is happening in three cities. San Francisco on May
sixth, twenty twenty-six. London on May nineteenth, twenty twenty-six. And
Tokyo on June tenth, twenty twenty-six. Here's why this matters
profoundly: Code with Claude twenty twenty-five was where Claude four
launched. It's Anthropic's flagship announcement vehicle, held across three cities.
The pattern is established. But here's the strategic detail nobody's
talking about: the London event on May nineteenth directly counterprograms
Google I slash O, which is May nineteenth through the
twentieth. This is not accidental. You don't schedule your biggest
developer event for the exact same day as Google's keynote
unless you're making a statement. The leaked documents also mentioned
an exclusive invite-only European C-E-O retreat at an eighteenth-century manor
turned hotel-and-spa where Dario Amodei would demonstrate unreleased Claude capabilities
to European business leaders. If Dario is already in London
for Code with Claude on May nineteenth, scheduling that retreat
for May twentieth through twenty-first — the days immediately after
— would be logistically natural. European C-E-O attendees would get
a private demo of Mythos capabilities that were just publicly
announced hours before. Here's the key insight: May sixth for
San Francisco announcement. May nineteenth for London to counterprogramming Google
I slash O and maintain momentum. May twentieth through twenty-first
for private European executive access. This is a three-week product
rollout strategy, not a single announcement. When companies prepare to
release major products, you see the go-to-market machinery spinning up
months in advance. Here's what Anthropic has been doing since
early March. The Claude Partner Network launched March twelfth with
one hundred million dollars committed to partner training and sales
enablement. The Claude Certified Architect certification went live March twelfth
— their first technical certification program. This is a pre-launch
pattern: you certify partners on the ecosystem before the flagship
arrives. They're actively hiring for inference deployment engineers across A-W-S,
Google Cloud, and Azure. They're hiring cloud inference staff and
performance T-P-Ms — those are production readiness roles, not research.
They've hired Strategic Account Executives across tech, cybersecurity, and federal
verticals. And the Capybara tier appears in third-party A-P-I documentation,
though no public endpoint exists yet. These aren't research hires.
These are "we're launching a product" hiring patterns. You don't
build certification programs and hire sales teams for something that's
months away. Now let's look at the competitive calendar. This
creates real urgency. OpenAI's next model, internally codenamed Spud, completed
pre-training around March twenty-fourth. Sam Altman told employees to expect
it in "a few weeks" with capabilities "very different from
what we've seen before." Expected release: late March or April
twenty twenty-six. Google I slash O is May nineteenth through
twentieth. Expect significant Gemini announcements. The competitive calendar for Q-two
twenty twenty-six is brutal. We've got late March slash April
with OpenAI Spud. April twenty-second: Anthropic at Google Cloud Next
and Healthcare Briefing. May sixth: Code with Claude San Francisco.
May nineteenth through twentieth: Google I slash O plus Code
with Claude London on the same day. June tenth: Code
with Claude Tokyo. June fifteenth through eighteenth: Databricks Data plus
A-I Summit. June seventeenth through twentieth: VivaTech Paris. If Anthropic
waits past June, they cede momentum in the most competitive
quarter the A-I industry has ever seen — right before
an I-P-O they're targeting for Q-four twenty twenty-six. OpenAI is
also pushing toward Q-four I-P-O. SoftBank's forty billion dollar loan
to OpenAI on March twenty-seventh signals concrete preparation. Anthropic executives
reportedly believe they "need revenue momentum" to win the I-P-O
race. Waiting isn't a strategic option. Now here's an interesting
signal from the safety and guardrail side. On March twenty-eighth,
a highly upvoted post on r slash ClaudeA-I — fifty-three
upvotes — reported that Opus four point six started blocking
legitimate cybersecurity research approximately eight days earlier, around March twentieth.
A user who'd been doing static analysis, decompilation, and vulnerability
hunting for months suddenly couldn't do any of it. A
commenter with eighteen upvotes directly connected this to Mythos: "They
might be preparing for the release of a much more
powerful model." This is a preparation signal, not a delay
signal. If Anthropic is tightening cybersecurity guardrails across their entire
model lineup and the timing coincides with when Mythos enters
early-access testing, they're building the safety infrastructure they'll need for
a model with far greater cyber capabilities. You don't harden
your systems unless you're planning to need them soon. So
here's my prediction. Central estimate: Formal announcement at Code with
Claude San Francisco on May sixth, twenty twenty-six; phased public
access through May through June twenty twenty-six. The specific timeline
looks like this: May sixth, twenty twenty-six: Formal announcement and
live demo at Code with Claude San Francisco. Limited A-P-I
access for developers begins the same day or within forty-eight
hours, following the Claude four launch pattern. May nineteenth, twenty
twenty-six: Code with Claude London — expanded access, international availability.
Direct counterprogramming of Google I slash O to keep the
drumbeat going. May twentieth through twenty-first, estimated: European C-E-O retreat
— private Mythos demo for enterprise leaders while Dario is
in the region anyway. Late May through June twenty twenty-six:
Broad Claude dot A-I access, full A-P-I general availability, Capybara
tier pricing goes live. June tenth, twenty twenty-six: Code with
Claude Tokyo — A-P-A-C launch. Why is May sixth the
best guess? Let me walk through the logic. First: Code
with Claude is the proven launch vehicle. Claude four debuted
there in May twenty twenty-five. The pattern is established and
the twenty twenty-six dates are already confirmed. Second: Event-driven launches
are now strategy. The Super Bowl coordination with Opus four
point six proves Anthropic thinks in terms of marketing moments.
Code with Claude is their biggest owned event of the
year. Third: The London slash Google I slash O counterprogramming
is deliberate. You don't schedule your developer conference for the
same day as Google's keynote without something substantial to announce.
If San Francisco on May sixth introduces Mythos, London on
May nineteenth keeps competitive pressure on through Google I slash
O. Fourth: Infrastructure readiness is visible. The Partner Network, Certified
Architect, and hiring are all happening now. The Capybara tier
exists in planning but not yet in the A-P-I. You
build the surrounding ecosystem before the product arrives. Fifth: Competitive
pressure is intense. OpenAI's Spud dropping in April. Google I
slash O in May. I-P-O targets in Q-four. If Anthropic
waits past June, they lose momentum in the most important
quarter. Sixth: The leak removes indefinite options. Everyone knows Mythos
exists. Every week without a launch is a week where
competitors can position against it and where the story moves
out of Anthropic's control. Now let's look at scenario probabilities.
There are four scenarios worth considering. The aggressive scenario: April
fifteenth through thirtieth. Probability: ten percent. Key driver: pre-event teaser;
unlikely for a full launch. The base case: May sixth
announcement, May through June rollout. Probability: sixty percent. Key driver:
Code with Claude plus infrastructure readiness. The cautious scenario: July
through September twenty twenty-six. Probability: twenty percent. Key driver: Safety
evaluation delays plus serving economics. The delayed or restructured scenario:
Q-four twenty twenty-six and beyond. Probability: ten percent. Key driver:
A-S-L-four classification; bundled with I-P-O. Now, what could be wrong
with this analysis? There are several counterpoints worth exploring. First:
Safety evaluation takes longer than expected. The cybersecurity capabilities are
genuinely alarming. Anthropic's Responsible Scaling Policy V-three requires them to
pause deployment if safety can't keep up. Red-teaming could trigger
A-S-L-four classification, pushing the timeline months. However, the fact that
early-access testing is already happening suggests the internal review is
in progress, not stalled. Second: Code with Claude might focus
on product, not models. Just because Claude four launched at
Code with Claude twenty twenty-five doesn't guarantee Mythos launches at
twenty twenty-six. The event might focus on I-D-E integrations, Claude
Code improvements, or agent capabilities. Watch for the agenda preview,
expected early April. If it mentions "new model tiers" or
"frontier capabilities," confidence rises to eighty percent or higher. If
it's purely about existing products, confidence drops to forty percent.
Third: Serving economics aren't solved. The leaked materials said Mythos
is "very expensive for us to serve." G-P-U costs are
up nineteen percent in three months, which means potentially brutal
unit economics. Anthropic may need months of optimization — distillation,
quantization, mixture-of-experts routing — before broad access is viable. If
Mythos launches with aggressive rate limits or ten times or
more Opus pricing, this is why. Fourth: The ten trillion
parameter claim is fragile. Much technical analysis depends on whether
Mythos is a sparse Mixture-of-Experts, which is plausible and servable,
versus a dense ten trillion model, which is implausible to
serve at scale. We're building on social media extrapolation. The
model card will clarify this. Here are the signals worth
watching. High priority for the next two weeks: Code with
Claude twenty twenty-six agenda preview — expected early April. If
it mentions new model tiers, Mythos launch is near-certain. OpenAI
Spud capability level and reception — directly affects Anthropic's urgency.
Anthropic safety blog posts — a published risk report about
Mythos signals either delay or completed review. Medium priority for
the next four to six weeks: Early-access program expansion beyond
cybersecurity organizations. Anthropic infrastructure announcements about serving optimization or cost
reduction. Polymarket odds movement, currently thin at thirty-three thousand dollars
volume. And some lower priority but interesting signals: Continued cybersecurity
guardrail changes on existing models. Anthropic employee social media activity.
Leaks from European C-E-O retreat invitees. Here's the bottom line:
Anthropic has the established playbook — Code with Claude as
launch vehicle. They have the marketing precedent — Super Bowl
with Opus four point six. They have the infrastructure readiness
— Partner Network, certifications, hiring. They have the competitive urgency
— OpenAI, Google, I-P-O timeline. And they have the problem:
everyone knows Mythos exists. May sixth is the most logical
date because it's the most logical event, and Anthropic has
demonstrated they now think about model releases strategically in terms
of marketing moments and competitive position, not just technical readiness.
My confidence level: sixty-five percent for a May sixth announcement.
The convergence of Code with Claude, infrastructure signals, competitive calendar,
and the European event all point to the same window.
The main uncertainty is safety evaluation timing, which we have
limited visibility into. If the Code with Claude agenda mentions
anything about new model capabilities, that confidence rises to eighty
percent. If it's purely about existing products, confidence drops to
forty percent. Watch early April closely. That's when we'll get
the confirmation signal we need. That's the Mythos prediction deep
dive. Full post and sources at jacobbrooke95.github.io slash jacobs-research-journal. Thanks
for listening.